the World Health Organization is warning
that extreme heat in Gaza could worsen
health problems for Palestinians living
there in dire conditions it also said
the Israeli military's daily paus and
fighting has not improved deliveries of
badly needed supplies the charity
Doctors Without Borders is warning it
may be forced to stop or reduce its
activities in Gaza if more supplies are
not received in the coming days
for more on the humanitarian situation
in the Gaza Strip we're joined by
Alexandra say she's head of humanitarian
policy and advocacy for the NGO save the
children welcome to DW
Alexandra um tell us what your
colleagues on the ground in Gaza are
saying about the impact of the current
heat wve in the Mediterranean on what's
already a very very difficult situation
thank you for having me um even before
this heat wave the conditions on the
ground were absolutely atrocious and
this heat wve is going to be
catastrophic for children in Gaza
remember early on in the war Israel had
shut off the electricity to Gaza and now
much of the infrastructure has been
destroyed and so there is no air
conditioning um families are basically
living under tents um without any any
any with and with very little fuel to um
cool off um and so the conditions are
very very hot and this combined with um
the fuel shortages the lack of clean
water is making it a breeding ground for
health problems and infectious diseases
um and so you know being early on in the
summer we're expecting things to get
much
worse well children of course are among
the most vulnerable in Gau
tell us what their most urgent needs are
and how can the International Community
help the children in
Gaza the biggest need that children in
Gaza have at the moment is safety um no
place in Gaza is safe um just yesterday
there was an attack on a Red Cross
nearby near a Red Cross facility where
there were dozens of displaced families
living and um seeking shelter
and you know these mass casualty events
we're seeing happen again and again and
again including in areas that Israel has
declared as so-called safe zones or
safer areas um and so the sense there's
no sense of Safety and Security for
children they continue to be fleeing for
their lives with their families um and
finding no place uh to truly seek any
sorts of uh Refuge or or safety in
addition to that due to the lack of
supplies for for in uh medical supplies
um we're also seeing children dying due
to lack of medical assistance remember
we're seeing children losing their limbs
due to the use of uh explosive weapons
in densely populated areas and um uh
health professionals and doctors in Gaza
are uh forced to conduct emergency
surgeries um and respond to these uh
trauma cases with very few supplies um
in hand um and so that is also one of
the biggest needs for for children at
the moment um of course the lack of
clean water is causing dehydration and
fueling the disease as well and with
without sufficient um humanitarian
assistance including food and other
supplies it's making the situation even
more dire that was Alexandra say from
the NGO save the children thank you so
much for your time
thank you for having me